benefits update (#10)
2i2c-org/team-compass: benefits.md

# Benefits & Perks

This page details the benefits of working at 2i2c.

## Health Benefits

For employees based in the US, 2i2c provides generous health benefits. Health benefits at 2i2c are provided through its parent organization, {term}`ICSI`. For more information, see [the ICSI health benefits page](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lm16SjCA1SbkgzDpcfg3yEKCB6eDOkx7/view?usp=sharing).

For employees who are not based in the US, we will work to offer similar benefits that apply to your country of residence.

## Retirement

For employees based in the US, 2i2c will make contributions to a retirement account. See [the ICSI retirement benefits page](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Of323rUco7TvbkavgCUtBji4INdX-TJB/view?usp=sharing) for more information.

## Paid Time Off

First and foremost, 2i2c fosters a culture of healthy balance between work and life.
All 2i2c employees should take the time they need to thrive - this will both make you happier and benefit 2i2c in the long run.

> Currently 2i2c does not have a limit on the number of days you may take off each year. We encourage a **don't ask, do tell** policy to time off:

Reviewer: I really like https://buffer.com/resources/employees-take-vacation/. Primary problem is that when folks don't know how much vacation others are taking, it causes them to take less time off than they 'should'. 

The primary additions here would be the suggested minimum vacation days policy. I like buffer's example of 15 workdays (~3 weeks). 

I also like the other aspects of their policy, which I've cribbed below.

---
Here are the exact guidelines we sent to the team:

1. We encourage team members to take a minimum of 3 weeks (15 work days) of vacation time throughout the year, in addition to the holidays (bank, religious or otherwise) you choose to observe.
2. There is no maximum vacation recommendation, though there may be more and longer conversations for unique situations in which a teammate might want to take, say, 6–8 weeks off.
3. Buffer is privileged to be a global team; please take time off that’s in line with your country’s standards if it’s generally a bit more than our recommendation.
4. It’s generally great to begin to take time off after you’ve been at Buffer for about 3 months. (If you’re newer to the team and have something already planned, no worries! We’ll take it case by case).
5. This time is separate from holidays that you choose to celebrate, and outside of sick/personal days, bereavement/compassionate leave, and family leave.

Reviewer: Not sure how to make this interact with the 14day winter holiday though. I also know many people (including myself!) don't like going places or doing traditional things around the winter break. I used to always just trade that for more time in February.

Author: I like the buffer docs on this as well, we should include them as inspiration for this. I suspect that this policy might evolve over time, so I wonder what we can use as an MVP right now and then open issues to discuss the finer points later (since we don't have *any* process right now, it seems like just having something would be an improvement as long as it is not really controversial).

Also just a note that the 2 weeks at the end-of-year thing is just us inheriting an ICSI policy...I'm not sure how that works but my assumption is that we should assume that our policy is constrained by ICSI policy to some degree unless we have an official agreement otherwise? Either way - something we can continue to iterate on

Reviewer: Yeah, this sounds good to me.

- Let the team know in advance when you'll take time off
- Give advance notice that roughly scales with how long you'd like to take off (e.g., for just a day or two, let everyone know the week before, to take off several weeks, let us know a month in advance, etc).

> - Try to avoid taking time off during important moments of the academic calendar - this generally means the beginning and end of Fall and Spring semesters.

Reviewer: Hmm, thinking about it some more - I think this doesn't apply for everyone. For example, whoever is helping doing just PANGEO stuff. Perhaps this is just a part of 'Let the team know in advance'?

> - Try to avoid taking time off during important moments of the academic calendar - this generally means the beginning and end of Fall and Spring semesters.

Reviewer 2: This is probably good guidance for anyone in the academic sphere, which includes Pangeo. These are crunch times for research as well.

> - Try to avoid taking time off during important moments of the academic calendar - this generally means the beginning and end of Fall and Spring semesters.

Author: yeah good point - my main goal here was to try and give an idea that there may be some times of the year when we'd really like people to be "on deck" in stead of on vacation. As an example, Basecamp [uses "CODE" statuses to define when people shouldn't take time off](https://basecamp.com/handbook/08-benefits-and-perks#:~:text=At%20Basecamp%2C%20we%20assign%20a,of%20launching%20a%20new%20product.)...maybe we should do something like this?

### How to let the team know you're taking off

> 2i2c uses a Google Calendar to track major events and dates. If you're planning to take time off, as soon as possible **mark these days on your Google Calendar** and **ping the 2i2c team in Slack**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2i2c uses a Google Calendar to track major events and dates. If you're planning to take time off, as soon as possible **mark these days on your Google Calendar** and **tell the rest of the 2i2c team in Slack**.
```

For employees who are not based in the US, we will work to offer similar benefits that apply to your country of residence.

## Retirement

For employees based in the US, 2i2c will make contributions to a retirement account. See [the ICSI retirement benefits page](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Of323rUco7TvbkavgCUtBji4INdX-TJB/view?usp=sharing) for more information.

## Paid Time Off

First and foremost, 2i2c fosters a culture of healthy balance between work and life.
All 2i2c employees should take the time they need to thrive - this will both make you happier and benefit 2i2c in the long run.

- Currently 2i2c does not have a limit on the number of days you may take off each year. 
- We recommend that all 2i2c team members **take at least 15 days** (3 weeks) annually (pro-rated if you started work mid-way through the year).
- Before planning time off, get approval from the Director of 2i2c to make sure there aren't any major dates that we'll need team members for.

>   - In the future, we aim to be more flexible with PTO, but will use this process while the team is very small.

Reviewer: I like this explicit call out.

- Discuss your desired time off enough in advance for the team to plan around it. This should roughly scale with how long you'd like to take off (e.g., for just a day or two, let everyone know the week before, to take off several weeks, let us know a month in advance, etc).
- This time is separate from holidays that you choose to celebrate, and outside of sick/personal days, bereavement/compassionate leave, and family leave.

### Use the Calendar to let the team know you're taking off

2i2c uses a Google Calendar to track major events and dates. Once you've gotten approval from the 2i2c Director, **mark these days on your Google Calendar** with the title `VACATION` and **tell the rest of the 2i2c team in Slack**.

### 2i2c holidays

2i2c is a fully remote team, and as such we recognize holidays based on your home country. You should take the time to be with those around you when your community has time off.

> Mark your 2i2c Google Calendar with any nationally-recognized holidays in your country of residence. Use the `HOLIDAY` title for the event on your calendar.

Reviewer 3: This is a great idea :+1:
